Israel's Chief military spokesman says
its Army surrounded Gaza City and will
continue its bombing
campaign we have started this war with
great pain and we are determined to win
to have Victory and to bring back our
beloved ones our forces through gulan
were able to surround Gaza and arrived
by sea also and today we have Northern
Gaza and Southern Gaza they arrived by
sea and were able to control these areas
we're trying to provide a corridor a
safe Corridor so that people can leave
and move safely but we will continue our
air strikes in an intensive way and we
will continue to attack and bomb
Northern Gaza we're going to go live to
Saka who in occupied East Jerusalem SRA
obviously you've been reporting on a
series of raids and increasing number of
raids in that area over the last few
days or so but I understand there's been
an incident in occupied East Jerusalem
what else can you tell us
yeah and I'm not sure if you can hear
those Sirens that are going off behind
me there's a lot of activity uh just
down the road there because that's where
the old city is and that's where in the
last hour two Israeli uh Border Police
they're known as uh were stabbed a
female and a male officer both in their
20s at one of the gates that allows you
into uh the old city known in Arabic as
Al Zahra and some call it herat uh uh
gate so um this is one of the entrances
to uh places uh that are holy uh to many
people around the world including Al AA
mosque uh compound um now this is just
one incident a few days ago we'd also
seen a stabbing just down the road uh
from here the Palestinian that stabbed
these two officers who are in critical
condition has been killed um in the
Israeli terms they call it neutralized
which is something they often do they um
don't do arrests they just shoot tap
them instantly but this also comes off
the back of several raids last night
also in occupied East Jerusalem where 23
Palestinians were arrested and it's
reported that those arrests are related
uh to them posting on social media for
example or taking Parts in protests uh
against what's happening in Gaza and
like what we're seeing in occup occupied
West Bank rather we're also seeing these
raids increasing here as well where
anyone who uh even likes sometimes a
post that is against what's happening in
Gaza is arrested s let's talk about um
Israeli internal politics for a moment
apparently there are more signs of
Divisions between Benjamin Netanyahu and
his government what can you tell
us yeah absolutely we've been seeing
this since the beginning of the war a
lot of toing and frowing between people
within this war cabinet so the latest on
this is that Prime prime minister uh
Benjamin Netanyahu has been uh it's been
reported and he's been accused of uh
once again uh kind of blaming uh some of
the Israeli reservists that took part in
anti-government protests throughout the
year before this war um who had said
that they were going to stop uh taking
part in any of these refresher trainings
that they usually go through um and he's
previously to this war blamed them um
for weakening uh the Israeli uh forces
and giving Hamas an opportunity to
attack Israel well of course that attack
happened on October 7 uh prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu has now countered
those claims saying that Hamas started a
war against us because they want to kill
us not because of any arguments within
us now Benny Gant who's the a former uh
uh leader for one of the opposition
parties but also one of the main people
as part of this war cabinet had actually
before that overnight um called on him
to retract any statement that implies
that the weakness that happened within
the military was due to these reservists
that wouldn't take part during these
anti-government protests he said uh
evading responsibility and mudslinging
during war is a uh it creates harm to
the country now this is also off the
back of what is a so-called Unity
government an emergency government that
is currently uh taking place where there
seems to be divisions this has happened
before when we were talking about a
ground Invasion where the military
clearly wanted to go in they had felt
that prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu
was pulling them back perhaps at the
time because of trying to ensure the
release of these uh captives in Gaza and
those divisions were happening but again
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu tried
to uh uh portray a sense of unity this
won't go down very well with the public
because this is a time where Israel
should be United in the government with
the military and intelligence but
clearly there seems to be a crack within
and this is showing more and more as the
days go by during this war s thank you
very much Sak talking to us from
occupied East Jerusalem